# FaceRecognitionProject
This project is a desktop application built with Python, using DeepFace, OpenCV, and PyQt5. It allows you to recognize a face and compare the selected reference image against a local database of other images and displays the similarity scores in an interface.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prerequisites
To run this application, you should have(download):
 + Python 3.x
 + [deploy.prototxt.txt](https://github.com/sr6033/face-detection-with-OpenCV-and-DNN/blob/master/deploy.prototxt.txt)
 + [res10_300x300_ssd_iter_140000.caffemodel](https://github.com/shiyazt/Face-Recognition-using-Opencv-/blob/master/face_detection_model/res10_300x300_ssd_iter_140000.caffemodel)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Clone the Repository
Clone this repository to your local machine.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Create and Activate a Virtual Environment
It is highly recommended to use a virtual environment to manage dependencies.

-> python -m venv venv

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3. Activate the virtual environment
    On macOS and Linux:
        source venv/bin/activate
    On Windows:
        venv\Scripts\activate

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4. Install Required Libraries
With your virtual environment active, install all the necessary Python packages using the requirements.txt file.

    pip install -r requirements.txt

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

5. Download and Configure Project Data
Important: Due to file size considerations, the following directories are not included in the repository. You must create them yourself.

 5.1 Create a new directory named 'face_detector_model' in the project root.
 "face_detector_model/": This folder contains the pre-trained Caffe models necessary for face detection.
 Download the following two files and place them inside this new folder:
     "deploy.prototxt.txt"
     "res10_300x300_ssd_iter_140000.caffemodel"
 (Note: You can find these files online or from a trusted source for face detection models.)
 
 5.3 Create a new directory named 'database' in the project root. 
 "database/": This is the core directory for the face recognition. It is used to store both the face images and the data generated by the DeepFace library.
 Inside the database folder, create a subfolder for each person you want to include in the comparison. For example, database/John_Doe/.
 Place the face images for this specific person inside their respective subfolder. The DeepFace library will automatically analyze and use these images.
 
 5.2 Create a new directory named 'Images' in the project root.
 "Images/": This is where you will store the images for comparison.
 Place all the face images you want to compare inside this folder.
 The program will automatically load all images from this directory.
 Add the images you want to test or "recognize".
 
 **For the images to be recognized, the database folder needs to be handled.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

How to Run the Application
Once all the setup steps are complete, you can run the application with the following command:
-> python your_main_script.py

Replace your_main_script.py with the name of your main Python file that contains the CompareImage function and calls the display logic.
